Season-1
In this first season, we see Rachel, who has just left her fiancé at the altar, moving in with Monica, her best friend who went to high school with her, and all of the group members who are in college. Chandler is still friends with Ross and welcomes him. The season focuses primarily on the developing relationship between all the characters, with Ross’s unrequited love for Rachel and his commitment to Chandler simultaneously.

Season-2
In the second season, it is seen that the romantic relationship between Rachel and Ross breaks down after a lot of difficulties, there are many obstacles in their relationship, meanwhile, Ross makes a new girlfriend named Julie, and Julie becomes Ross’s girlfriend now. Meanwhile, Rachel becomes jealous of Julie, while Monica begins dating Richard, Richard turns out to be a rich man, and Joey also becomes a soap opera star.

Season-3
The season begins with Ross’s infatuation with Rachel, he can’t help it but she wants to be with another man instead of Ross. Monica and Chandler begin a secret relationship with Phoebe’s half-brother Frank. He marries his senior teacher, while Joy gets a role in a big film, so he moves out of the apartment.

Season-4
The season sees the return of Ross’s first wife, Carol, who is pregnant with a child, while Monica and Chandler’s secret affair becomes known to everyone, causing tension in the group, with Joy fighting for her life. Flirts and dates with his roommate, Rachel moves into fashion and takes on a new job.

Season-5
In this season, Ross and Rachel decide to get drunk and get married in Las Vegas. After getting drunk, they realize that both are not yet ready for marriage, and then they decide to take a Divorce here. With Monica and Chandler’s affair becoming known, the two now publicly acknowledge the relationship and Phoebe gives birth to three children who are his brother’s and his wife’s, who she bears as a surrogate.

Season-6
The season progresses as Monica and Chandler get engaged and begin planning their wedding, while Ross begins dating a student named Elizabeth. Rachel also develops feelings for her assistant Tag. Meanwhile, Phoebe reunites with her birth mother after a long time; Joey falls in love with his neighbour, but the love doesn’t last long and the relationship ends badly.

Season-7
In this season, Monica and Chandler get married in which Joey attends as a minister, while Ross and Rachel have feelings for each other again, but this time both of them explain their hearts, and no action is taken. Chandler’s father reveals that Phoebe is gay when Phoebe meets her half-brother.

Season-8
The season begins with Monica and Chandler trying their best to have a baby. Meanwhile, Rachel and Ross sleep together and Rachel becomes pregnant. Joey gets a job on a game show, so he’s happy. Next, Phoebe meets and dates a police officer.

Season-9
Rachel has a baby this season and Ross realizes he still has feelings for Rachel. Monica and Chandler can’t have kids so they adopt twins. Now Phoebe dates Joey and her roommate. This leads to a love triangle between three friends. Rachel now has a job in Paris but Ross is in love with her so he tries to stop her.

Season-10
The final season sees major changes in the group, with Rachel leaving Ross and moving to Paris, while Phoebe marries her longtime boyfriend, Mike, and bears twins Monica and Chandler. They prepare to move to another city, and Ross also confesses that he is in love with Rachel, and now all the group members leave the apartment, with this the show ends and everyone moves on to their new lives.